Brothers and sisters, welcome to our update.
Since our last report, there have been some exciting developments.
On May 31st, 2022, the governing body informed all branch committees that we would now
resume all forms of our public ministry except house to housework.
Around the world, our brothers and sisters were thrilled to resume public witnessing.
The resuming in-person preaching once is to sit.
It was like we were resurrected.
We were gone and then we were back.
It was unifying.
And the brothers said, it was like riding a bicycle.
It all came back quickly and we had a great time.
A member of the branch committee in the United States was working with a small group
making return visits that they hadn't made in person since before the pandemic.
He said, I was worried that people would stand off-ish or that they'd be worried about
the virus, but that just wasn't the case at all.
After having a good discussion with his return visit, the brothers said it was so refreshing
to actually witness to someone in person at the door.
Recently, I had a similar experience when sharing in street work.
A young woman noticed that the brother with me had watched our magazines and she stopped
us.
She said that she was so happy to see Jehovah's Witnesses that led to a good discussion
and arrangements were made for a sister to contact her.
It was such a pleasure to be in street work again.
In Zambia, a public bus driver stopped the bus when he saw our brothers street witnessing
and he received a magazine from the brothers.
He asked them to preach to his passengers.
All of the passengers on the bus gladly listened and took magazines.
The weekend of June 25, 2022, was a milestone for our translation efforts.
13 language editions of the New World Translation were released in one weekend.
Some of the releases were of individual Bible books.
Others were the complete edition of the Greek Scriptures.
And some were of the complete Bible.
Previously, the largest number of Bibles released in the single weekend was six.
We thanked Jehovah for these precious gifts.
On June 7, 2022, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favor of Jehovah's Witnesses
in 21 cases all in one day.
Our previous record for court victories awarded in one day was on May 3, 1943, when we
won 12 cases in the United States Supreme Court.
We praised Jehovah for these fine victories.
Twenty of the 21 cases this month form a historic judgment against Russia for persecuting
Jehovah's Witnesses.
What did the court decide?
In the following video, brothers working with the World Headquarters Legal Department
answered these questions.
Brothers, this decision is truly historic.
In fact, the court consolidated 20 of our cases into one decision and ruled conclusively
in our favor in all of them.
Throughout the 196-page decision, the court meticulously dismantles the lies that Russia
has used to persecute our brothers and ban our worship.
Shane, in what way specifically did the court condemn Russia?
Well, the decision unambiguously declares that Russia is guilty of carrying out a premeditated
and relentless attack on innocent worshipers and on pure worship.
For example, at paragraph 254 of the decision, the European Court states that the Russian
authorities had pursued a policy of intolerance designed to cause Jehovah's Witnesses to abandon
their faith and to prevent others from joining it.
Of course, that policy was entirely unsuccessful.
In fact, this judgment completely exonerates Jehovah's Witnesses.
For example, Russia claimed that our publications and websites are extremist simply because
we believe that we have the truth.
In response, the European Court ruled that any religious entity or individual believers
have the right to proclaim and defend their doctrine as the true and superior one.
Shane, what else did the court say in our favor?
The European Court confirms our right to engage in our door-to-door preaching for parents
to teach their children to worship Jehovah, own and use our places of worship to refuse
military service, to refuse blood transfusions and choose effective alternatives, and to be
politically neutral.
In all of these areas, the European Court concludes that our religious beliefs and activities
are entirely peaceful and are protected by the right to freedom of religion.
Among other things, the decision orders Russia to stop persecuting Jehovah's Witnesses,
restore our legal status, release those who are in prison, allow us to use our literature
and website, and either return the properties that were confiscated or pay us the equivalent
of over $65 million dollars.
Outstanding.
We are just so grateful to the many brothers and sisters who work tirelessly to bring
these cases before the European Court of Human Rights.
One will tell whether Russia will comply with this decision.
But even if it does not, this decision is legally binding on the 46 countries who have submitted
to the jurisdiction of the European Court.
Thus, the rights of over one and a half million Jehovah's Witnesses who live in these lands
are better protected than ever.
But even more, because the European Court is held in such high regard, this decision
will have great weight before high courts worldwide.
We thank Jehovah for this historic victory, this resounding victory from the European Court.
We are confident that regardless of what the secular authorities do, Jehovah is going
to continue to be with our brothers.
Why do we know that?
Because of what is stated that I say a 54-17.
Do we read?
No weapon formed against you will have any success, and you will condemn any tongue that
rises up against you in the judgment.
This is the heritage of the servants of Jehovah, and their righteousness is from me, declares
Jehovah.
Yes, our heritage from Jehovah assures us of his constant support now and forever.
With that assurance, no opposition will weaken our faith or deprivation of the peace and
spiritual prosperity we enjoy as God's servants.
This is clearly seen when we consider how Jehovah helped our brothers during the persecution
in the former Soviet Union.
In the rest of this update, we are going to consider some examples of how Jehovah looked
after his people during that time.
You know, this will be so encouraging, not only for our brothers in Russia, but also
for all of us since we are all facing opposition in one way or another.
As we watch the following interviews, ask yourself, if this happened to me, what would
I do?
What helped these brothers and sisters to remain loyal to Jehovah?
I was baptized at the age of 15.
Few weeks later, school administration discovered that I am one of Jehovah's witnesses and decided
to readjust me and our family so that we renounce our faith.
They did not stop pressuring us for three years.
At the age of 18, I received a conscription to the Soviet army, but I refused and was sentenced
to two years of imprisonment.
When I was serving the sentence, I married a lovely and faithful sister, Lydia.
Soon after, I received a second call to join the army.
This time, the court rendered a sentence of three years in a unit of strict regime.
I was born in Ukraine.
When I got married, I moved to live with my husband in Lithuania.
Seven months later, my husband received a prison sentence.
Emotionally, this was so difficult that I ended up in the hospital.
Soon, we lost our unborn baby.
And here I was, alone in a foreign land, unable to speak the local language.
In view of the imprisonment of my husband, I was not able to find a job.
Prison guards were cruel and would often beat the prisoners.
I suffered such mistreatment as well.
More than that, I was isolated from my family and from my spiritual brothers and sisters.
We heard this part was the separation from my dear wife, Lydia.
Even so, Lydia was a special source of support for me.
Almost every day she wrote me letters.
I received more letters than all other 30 inmates combined.
To support my husband spiritually, in my letters, I would include verses from the scriptures
and quotations from publications trying to put them in a way that the censorship would
not be able to spot them.
Christian meetings were a source of strength for me.
I never missed them.
On one occasion, when we held a meeting in our homes, a group of militia and KGB broken.
As a result, I received a call to appear before the court.
On the day of a court hearing, I was very worried.
But Jehovah gave me such calmness that fear and nervousness disappeared.
I was sentenced to pay a fine of 50 rubles.
At the time, it was a large sum of money.
But I was not intimidated and never stopped attending meetings.
I used opportunities to give a witness to others in the prison.
There were instances when an audience of dozens of prisoners would listen to me.
When they asked questions that were more difficult to answer, I would analyze them and ponder
over them, so as to be able to explain the grounds for my beliefs.
Prayer was a constant companion.
I saw how Jehovah responded to them.
Sometimes, he would answer in a way I did not expect.
I always stayed focused on the reason why Jehovah wants me to remain faithful to him through
all those difficulties and this helped a lot.
There were many occasions when the help I received could not have come from any other source
but Jehovah.
Therefore, he became my best friend.
He would always come to the rescue.
The weaker I was, the more help came from Jehovah.
Let us not think about how we are going to enter tests.
Think about how Jehovah will help us.
He will give us strength to endure everything.
And during the things Jehovah allows us to experience is not in vain.
It is beneficial for us.
It fortifies and tempers our faith, so to speak.
What we need is the right positive attitude toward difficulties we face and we have to
be determined to stay faithful to Jehovah to the end.
We appreciate your faithful endurance, Brother and Sister Pachuvis.
You reminded us how vital it is to regularly attend meetings and share in the ministry,
both before and during times of persecution.
This helps to stabilize us and keep our faith strong.
In our next interview, notice how parental training regularly taking in spiritual food
and remaining determined never to compromise help Joseph and Vera Rusu to endure persecution.
I dealt with persecution when I was six years old.
My father and older brother were sentenced to 25 years in prison as conscientious objectors.
I wondered if I would ever see them again.
However, thankfully, they were released two years later.
Their example has strengthened me to remain faithful to Jehovah.
I also faced persecution when I was a child.
At school, I was often beaten because I preached.
I didn't wear the Soviet star and tie, and I didn't sing patriotic songs.
From an early age, my parents taught me to love Jehovah, to read from the Bible,
to sing praises to him, and to learn verses by heart.
They took us with them to the meetings that were held three times a week.
I loved to participate.
I always had my hand up.
My parents taught me how to respond to those who would put pressure on us to betray my brothers or my parents.
The love and trust in Jehovah that my parents planted in my heart helped me to cherish him
and to want to remain loyal to him.
When I was 15, our family was deported to Siberia by train.
In these difficult conditions, I found comfort and joy in the spiritual food that we managed to take from home.
Those were the most important things.
All the way there on the train, we sang songs.
Ten years later, when I was in Kazakhstan, I was arrested and sentenced to five years.
Oftentimes, the prison guards pressured me to compromise and renounce my faith.
But meditating on the issue of Jehovah's sovereignty helped me to stay firm.
I prayed to Jehovah for the strength to endure and to remain faithful.
Reading the Bible helped me to endure trials and not to make any compromises, no matter what.
After I finished my prison sentence, I returned to Moldova.
Then, in 1967, Vera and I got married.
Two years later, Josef was tried by the Supreme Court of Moldova in sentence to
ten years in a maximum security camp.
Suddenly, I was left alone at 18, with a one-year-old boy.
I was often called by the KGB and interrogated for hours, sometimes for five hours.
They told me many lies and attempted to sow doubts in my mind.
The next few years, I saw my son grow up only in photographs,
and when Vera would visit me twice a year.
One of the things I especially looked forward to receiving from her was a new pair of boots.
The other brothers and sisters in I wrote the magazines on very thin sheets of paper
that had the shape of a soul.
We removed the souls of the boots, filled them with magazines, and then nailed the souls back on.
It was possible to fit seven magazines and one pair of boots.
During persecution, your relationship with Jehovah becomes closer, more real,
Jehovah is kind. He is giving me the power beyond what is normal.
In my life, the greater the trials, the more opportunities Jehovah gave me to talk about his
purpose and his kingdom. The way Jehovah helps me focus on what I have, and not on the hardships
that I have endured, brings me so much joy and comfort. I have no reason not to be happy.
Thank you, brother and sister Rusu, for sharing your experience with us.
Did you notice what helped them prepare for and face persecution?
In addition to good parental training, they regularly took in spiritual food and learned
Bible verses by heart, and they kept clearly in mind the issue of Jehovah's sovereignty,
remaining determined, never to compromise. We can do the same today.
Both of these couples remind us of the words recorded at Hebrews 13-6.
Jehovah is my helper. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
Jehovah truly was the help of our brothers and sisters in the former Soviet Union.
Despite all the waves of persecution that our brothers faced, they remained faithful
and their numbers grew. For example, in 1949 there were about 10,000 witnesses in the countries
that formed the Soviet Union, and most of those were in Western Ukraine.
Now, the number of publishers in those countries is over 380,000.
Truly, Jehovah helped them. In the late 1970s and 80s, I worked very closely with the
brothers behind the iron curtain. I saw not only their faith, but also the many ways that Jehovah
helped them. Jehovah always made sure they had the spiritual food they needed.
The brothers really appreciated the importance of attending meetings,
even though these were held in small groups, and they loved to sing theocratic songs,
learning many of these by heart. They had to risk their freedom and even their safety in order
to attend in-person meetings. But they always made the effort. Even though the devil tried to break
their integrity, I saw again and again how Jehovah prospered our brothers and helped them to
remain faithful. The Russian government can liquidate a legal entity, but they can never liquidate
Jehovah's organization. What will happen to the king of the north? Daniel 1145 tells us,
he will come all the way to his end, and there will be no helper for him. There will be no helper
for the king of the north, but who will be our helper? What did Hebrews 136 say? Jehovah is my helper.
Brothers and sisters, be determined. Come what may to put your full confidence in Jehovah and be
faithful. Jehovah will be your helper. We ideally love each one of you. From the world headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.